From cedric.landerer@gmail.com Thu Oct 17 04:54:58 2019
Date: Thu, 17 Oct 2019 10:54:03 +0200
From: Cedric Landerer <cedric.landerer@gmail.com>
To: Mike Gilchrist <mikeg@utk.edu>, Brian O'Meara <bomeara@utk.edu>, Russell Zaretzki <russell.zaretzki@gmail.com>
Subject: Fwd: Your submission to BMC Evolutionary Biology - EVOB-D-19-00184
Resent-From: <mikeg@utk.edu>



---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: BMC Evolutionary Biology Editorial Office <em@editorialmanager.com>
Date: Tue, Oct 15, 2019 at 10:04 AM
Subject: Your submission to BMC Evolutionary Biology - EVOB-D-19-00184
To: Cedric Landerer <cedric.landerer@gmail.com>


EVOB-D-19-00184
Unlocking a signal of introgression from codons in Lachancea kluveri using a
mutation-selection model
Cedric Landerer, Ph.D.; Brian C O'Meara, Ph.D.; Russell Zaretzki, Ph.D.; Michael
A Gilchrist, Ph.D.
BMC Evolutionary Biology

Dear Dr Landerer,

Your manuscript "Unlocking a signal of introgression from codons in Lachancea
kluveri using a mutation-selection model" (EVOB-D-19-00184) has been assessed by
our reviewers. They have raised a number of points which we believe would
improve the manuscript and may allow a revised version to be published in BMC
Evolutionary Biology.

Their reports, together with any other comments, are below. Please also take a
moment to check our website at https://www.editorialmanager.com/evob/ for any
additional comments that were saved as attachments.

If you are able to fully address these points, we would encourage you to submit
a revised manuscript to BMC Evolutionary Biology.
Once you have made the necessary corrections, please submit online at:

https://www.editorialmanager.com/evob/

If you have forgotten your password, please use the 'Send Login Details' link on
the login page at https://www.editorialmanager.com/evob/. For security reasons,
your password will be reset.

Please include a cover letter with a point-by-point response to the comments,
describing any additional experiments that were carried out and including a
detailed rebuttal of any criticisms or requested revisions that you disagreed
with. Please also ensure that all changes to the manuscript are indicated in the
text by highlighting or using track changes.

Please also ensure that your revised manuscript conforms to the journal style,
which can be found at the Submission Guidelines on the journal homepage.

A decision will be made once we have received your revised manuscript, which we
expect by 14 Nov 2019.

Please note that you will not be able to add, remove, or change the order of
authors once the editor has accepted your manuscript for publication.  Any
proposed changes to the authorship must be requested during peer-review, and
adhere to our criteria for authorship as outlined in BioMed Central's policies. 
To request a change in authorship, please download the 'Request for change in
authorship form' which can be found here -
http://www.biomedcentral.com/about/editorialpolicies#authorship.  Please note
that incomplete forms will be rejected.  Your request will be taken into
consideration by the editor, and you will be advised whether any changes will be
permitted.  Please be aware that we may investigate, or ask your institute to
investigate, any unauthorized attempts to change authorship or discrepancies in
authorship between the submitted and revised versions of your manuscript.

I look forward to receiving your revised manuscript and please do not hesitate
to contact us if you have any questions.

Best wishes,

Dafne Solera, on behalf of
Alison Cuff
BMC Evolutionary Biology
https://bmcevolbiol.biomedcentral.com/




Reviewer reports:

Reviewer 1: General comments

This paper presents an interesting analysis of the effects of selection and
mutational bias on codon usage (CUB) in the yeast Lachancea kluvyveri (the name
is misspelt in the title), in relation to the fact that a piece of genome has
been introgressed from another species, with a distinctive pattern of codon
usage. It uses the Bayesian modeling method, ROC SEMPPR, developed by the
Gilchrist lab, which combines mechanistic and population genetic approaches.
There are, however, a number of problems with the paper.

One general point is that the model does not include any effects of biased gene
conversion, which has been widely discussed in the literature on base
composition. There has been a claim that GC-biased gene conversion affects CUB
in S. cerevisiae (Harrison & Charlesworth 2011, MBE 28:117). This acts as a form
of selection that operates even on genes with low expression levels. It would be
good to have a brief discussion of possible biases that could result from
ignoring it. This is important in relation to the rather startling claim that
the ancestor of the exogenous sequence had a mutational bias towards GC rather
than AT. The suspicion is that this is much more likely to be due to GC-biased
gene conversion than mutational bias.

A second general point is that the paper uses quantities like Delta-M and
Delta-nu, without really explaining them until the Material and Methods. The
fact that these are expressed as deviations from the mean for each codon family
should be explained in the text. It would be helpful to the reader to have a
brief explanation of what these mean, without having to go to the back of the
paper to find out. Furthermore, the mutational model on which the estimates of
Delta-M are based tacitly assumes that the mutational transition matrix
generates a reversible process, such that 'detailed balance' can be assumed.
While this is common to many models of molecular evolution (e.g. in PAML), it is
not necessarily guaranteed. It might be good to draw this to the reader's
attention.

Third, the analysis of Delta-M and Delta-nu for the exogenous sequences assumes
that these are at statistical equilibrium. However, this is unlikely to be
correct, given the claim that mutational bias is very different in the ancestor
of the exogenous sequence. This problem needs to be discussed and resolved; it
is a major concern about whether this elaborate analysis is more useful than a
simple comparison of synonymous codon usage between the two classes of sequence

Fourth, the authors are making a strong claim about the origin of the exogenous
sequence, which disagrees with previous phylogenetic studies (p.9). They make
only a very brief statement about their own phylogenetic results. I think we
need to see much more evidence (e.g. a tree that places the exogenous sequence
genes among homologous genes from other species), if their claim that E.
gossypii is the source of the exogenous sequence is to be accepted. A detailed
comparison should made with the results of the other phylogenetic studies. The
worry is that their conclusion largely comes from the fact that E. gossypii has
a high GC content.

Finally, the writing could be substantially improved; there are several places
in which there is a lack of clarity.

Specific comments

p.2 l.4 There is evidence that translational accuracy may also be a target of
selection.
l.15 'about' not 'of'
l.17-18 The use of 'shift' is a bit obscure; I think you mean that the
endogenous genes have AT bias and ancestral exogenous genes had GC mutatioal
bias. This is not a shift, except in the sense that the exogenous genes have
become exposed to AT bias.
l.23 add 'that' before the last 'the'

p.3 l.4  'In contrast' is redundant.
l.8-9  I don't understand why it is claimed that the environment determines
expression etc. I suggest deleting this.
l.11 Mutation only acts in conjunction with genetic drift.
l.13-14 Again, the statement about external environment is redundant.
l.16-18  This gives the impression that the Gilchrist lab is the only one to
have modelled selection, mutation and drift in relation to CUB; there is in fact
a long history of such modelling, going back to Li (1987).
l.17 'variable' is better than 'forces'
l.28 'unaccounted for' means 'unexplained'; you mean 'not taken into account'
l.29-30 This is, of course, not much of a problem for most species, where there
has been little or no introgression from a distant species.
l.32 add 'yeast' before 'Lanchancea'; most readers won't have heard of it.
l.6 'probably' not 'likely'

p.4 l.4 Please mention the size of the introgressed segment.
l.17-19 Again, this overlooks the fact that many other studies have used
information on expression level and CUB to disentangle selection and mutation;
the Gilchrist lab approach is certainly the most sophisticated, but the basic
idea has been around a long time.
l.24 'Correcting' not 'Accounting'
l.32 add 'to' before 'previous'

p.5 l.9 '(author)' is an error
l.14 'detectable' is misspelt
l.25-26 The punctuation makes this sentence hard to follow. Replace 'and' after
'Delta-M' with a comma, remove comma after 'codons', and add comma after 'phi'
l.31 add 'a' before 'proxy'
l.32-33 This is unclear; I think you mean that modelling the two components
separately increase R^2 between observed and predicted  from 0.33 to 0.46. This
is not an increase in power in the normal sense in statistics, just an
improvement in fit.

p.6 l.5 'variable' not 'variable'
l.10  and 24 You chose to use Delta-nu as a measure of selection, rather than
its product with phi, which gives the scaled selection coefficient. It would be
helpful to have the reason for this choice explained up front, rather than
leaving it to l.24.
l.30-33 This differential usage of codons for a given amin-acid could, of
course, have been uncovered by more traditional methods of analysing codon
usage.

p.7 l.6 'disproportionate'  not 'disproportional' 
l.16 'for' not 'in'
l.20 Is 'preference' the same as 'bias'? If not, please explain. Does this imply
that mutational biases differ among codons? This seems rather odd, since one
would expect mutational bias to be a genome-wide phenomenon.

p.8 l.1 and Figure 4 What is being correlated with what? It is hard to make out
what has been done here.
l.18 'from' not 'in'
l.19 semicolon instead of first comma
l.27 'determined' is redundant
l.30  comma after ' that'
l.33 It is not clear what is meant by 'chromosome recombination'

p.9  l.14 The model of decay of codon usage of the exogenous sequences assumes
neutrality; this seems to be inconsistent with the estimate of selection against
them that is presented later.
l.21 '(author)' is an error

p.10 l.9 Please explain what is meant by 'weakly exapted'
l.20 add 'strength of' before 'selection'
l.26 The selection coefficient 's' is introduced without explanation as to where
is comes from.
l.31 'estimate' not 'approximate'
l.33 This conclusion seems paradoxical; if the exogenous genes have such a low
probability of fixation, how did they get fixed (this is considered later, in
the Discussion, but might as well be dealt with here? In addition, the
calculation seems to be for a single gene, whereas selection would act on the
whole introgressed segment, which does not (I believe) recombine. The question
of recombination is raised in the Discussion; they need to make it clear how
much recombination is likely to have happened.

p.11 l.5 more than what?
§2  The finding that the difference between exogenous and endogenous genes is
largely due to a difference in mutational bias is a very interesting one.
However, it raises a big question. The suggestion is that the exogenous gene had
a mutational bias toward GC. This seems very unusual, as a mutational bias
towards AT is almost universal.  As mentioned in my general comments, GC-biased
gene conversion seems more plausible.

p.12 l.6 'do' not 'due'
l.5 'gene' not 'genes', comma after 'trees' I don't follow the argument about
adaptation to the new cellular environment, as the authors' analyses suggest
that there are still  substantial differences between exogenous and endogenous
sequences.
l.30-31 The point made concerning l.33 of p.10 is relevant here; if there is
such a low fixation probability, how could the exogenous sequence get fixed? The
arguments on p.13 about a population bottleneck and a potential large selective
advantate are rather ad hoc.

p.16 l.5-9 An equivalent equation for the decay of base composition under
neutrality was given a long time ago (Marais et al 2004 Genome Biology 5: R45);
they can simply cite their result.
l.11 'were' is mispelt









Reviewer 2:
The paper includes a study which aims at understanding the effect of
introgression on codon usage pattern.  Among others, they used ROC SEMPPR  they
try to estimate the differences in codon usage bias between endogenous and
exogenous genes. They suggest that the differences can be attributed to 
mutation bias favoring A/T ending codons in the endogenous genes to C/G ending
codons in the exogenous genes.  With this model they claim that they are able to
better (42% improvement) predict protein synthesis rate and to estimate the
endogenous codon preferences.  In addition, they identify Eremothecium gossypii
as the closest relative to the exogenous genes, providing an alternative
hypothesis about the origin of the exogenous genes.
While the general research question may be interesting I must say that most of
the reported results are not clear to me (or they seem trivial); below are some
specific comments:

Major
-------
1) There are previous studies on similar topics that are not discussed (For
example, PMID: 15240837 , PMID: 21343180).

2) The Exogenous Genes:  I understand that the list of Exogenous Genes is from 
[12] and that this region is known as GC rich. Thus, the conclusion that the
differences in codon bias can be attributed to  mutation bias favoring A/T
ending codons in the endogenous genes to C/G ending codons in the exogenous
genes sounds trivial to me. As a control I suggest that you perform a similar
analysis but now take endogenous genes with the same GC content as the exogenous
and see if you get similar conclusions.

3) Similarly to point 2 above: All the reported results should be compared to
the following analysis as a control: perform a similar analysis but now take
endogenous genes with the same GC content as the exogenous and see if you get
similar conclusions. If you get similar conclusion for this control it means
that the results reported in the paper are not interesting and mainly related to
the differences in GC content between the two groups (which was partially used
for inferring the HGT) and not to features/aspects unique to HGT.

4) ROC SEMPPR: the reported results are strongly based on this model. Thus, you
should describe with more details (in this paper) the intuition related to the
model. Specifically, you should clearly define all the parameters estimated by
this model and the interpretation of their values (e..g mutation, selection
bias, etc). It is not clear to me if this model can work well when the input
include many genes that undergo HGT. Please clearly discuss this.

5)  " Specifically, the explanatory power between our predictions and observed
values improved by
_ 42%, from R2 = 0:33 to 0:46 (Figure 1)." It is not clear to me what is the
initial value (R^2 = 0.33 ) which is not very high (there are many studies that
yield much higher correlation between sequence features and gene expression; for
example PMID: 29040683, PMID: 24564391) ? in the figure you write 'protein
synthesis levels' but this is a prediction of   'protein synthesis levels'. Why
do you correlate with mRNA levels and not with measurements of protein levels? 
Please add more details re. the model of 'protein synthesis levels' prediction.

6) "Bayes factor strongly support the hypothesis that the L. kluyveri genome
consists of genes with two di_erent and distinct patterns of codon usage bias
rather than a single (K = exp(42; 294); Table 1).." Could you provide a p-value
related to this ( log likelihood values in the table look very similar) ?  In
any case, I think it is trivial to expect that he two group have different
patterns of codon usage (also given the large differences in GC content as
mentioned above)?

7) "Our estimates of _M for the endogenous and exoge- nous genes were negatively
correlated (_ = 0:49), indicating weak similarity with only _ 5% of the codons
share the same sign between the two mutation environ- ments (Figure 2a)."
*General* comment: please add p-values after each claim that appear in the
paper.

8) Sub-section "Determining Source of Exogenous Genes":  it is not clear to me
why your approach is better than previous approach in detecting the origin of
the Exogenous Genes and why the previous approaches are wrong (and it is not you
who are wrong). please add more explanations.

9) " We infer the age of the introgression to be on the order of ...
generations. " please better explain the expected error in this estimation.

10) Introduction: " In contrast, the signature of selection on codon usage is
largely deter-
mined by an organism's cellular environment alone, such as its tRNA species,
their
copy number, and their post-transcriptional modications.......  " The selection
on codon usage is affected by many additional aspects ( not only translation).
For example, there are studies that suggest that it is affected by selection on
transcription (PMID: 8913770 , PMID: 29165040).
















%ATTACH_FOR_AUTHOR_DEEP_LINK


If improvements to the English language within your manuscript have been
requested, you should have your manuscript reviewed by someone who is fluent in
English. If you would like professional help in revising this manuscript, you
can use any reputable English language editing service. We can recommend our
affiliates Nature Research Editing Service (http://bit.ly/NRES_BS) and American
Journal Experts (http://bit.ly/AJE_BS) for help with English usage. Please note
that use of an editing service is neither a requirement nor a guarantee of
publication. Free assistance is available from our English language tutorial(https://www.springer.com/gb/authors-editors/authorandreviewertutorials/writing
inenglish) and our Writing resources
(http://www.biomedcentral.com/getpublished/writing-resources). These cover
common mistakes that occur when writing in English.


--------------------
Editorial Policies
--------------------
Please read the following information and revise your manuscript as necessary.
If your manuscript does not adhere to our editorial requirements, this may cause
a delay while this is addressed. Failure to adhere to our policies may result in
rejection of your manuscript.

In accordance with BioMed Central editorial policies and formatting guidelines,
all manuscript submissions to BMC Evolutionary Biology must contain a
Declarations section which includes the mandatory sub-sections listed below. 
Please refer to the journal's Submission Guidelines web page for information
regarding the criteria for each sub-section
(https://bmcevolbiol.biomedcentral.com/
).

Where a mandatory Declarations section is not relevant to your study design or
article type, please write "Not applicable" in these sections.

For the 'Availability of data and materials' section, please provide information
about where the data supporting your findings can be found.  We encourage
authors to deposit their datasets in publicly available repositories (where
available and appropriate), or to be presented within the manuscript and/or
additional supporting files.  Please note that identifying/confidential patient
data should not be shared.  Authors who do not wish to share their data must
confirm this under this sub-heading and also provide their reasons.  For further
guidance on how to format this section, please refer to BioMed Central's
editorial policies page (see links below).

Declarations
-       Ethics approval and consent to participate
-       Consent to publish
-       Availability of data and materials
-       Competing interests
-       Funding
-       Authors' Contributions
-        Acknowledgements

Further information about our editorial policies can be found at the following
links:
Ethical approval and consent:
http://www.biomedcentral.com/about/editorialpolicies#Ethics
Availability of data and materials section:
http://www.biomedcentral.com/submissions/editorial-policies#availability+of+dat
a+and+materials

Recipients of this email are registered users within the Editorial Manager
database for this journal. We will keep your information on file to use in the
process of submitting, evaluating and publishing a manuscript. For more
information on how we use your personal details please see our privacy policy at
https://www.springernature.com/production-privacy-policy. If you no longer wish
to receive messages from this journal or you have questions regarding database
management, please contact the Publication Office at the link below.

__________________________________________________
In compliance with data protection regulations, you may request that we remove
your personal registration details at any time.  (Use the following URL:
https://www.editorialmanager.com/evob/login.asp?a=r). Please contact the
publication office if you have any questions.

