05-Feb-2019

Dear Dr. Landerer,

In view of the criticisms of the referees found at the bottom of this letter, I
fear that I cannot offer to publish your manuscript # GBE-181223 entitled
"Decomposing Mutation and Selection to Identify Mismatched Codon Usage" which
you submitted to Genome Biology and Evolution.

I wish to thank you for considering Genome Biology and Evolution for the
publication of your research and I hope the outcome of this specific submission
will not discourage you from the submission of future manuscripts.

Yours sincerely,
Laura A. Katz
Editor in Chief, Genome Biology and Evolution
lkatz@smith.edu

Associate Editor: Sharp, Paul


Reviewers' Comments:

Referee: 1

Comments to the Author
In this manuscript, Landerer and coauthors apply a statistical model of codon
usage evolution to a yeast species that underwent an introgression of several
hundred genes, millions of generations in the past. By estimating mutation and
selection parameters for classes of codons, separately for endogenous and
introgressed genes, they find that mutational patterns are very different
between the two sets of genes, whereas the selection patterns are similar. They
then use the parameters to estimate the timing of introgression and the genetic
load due to non-optimal codon usage.

The ROC SEMPPR model, developed by the same authors, has been extensively
validated in S. cerevisiae, and it is nice to see an application of the model to
another species. The analysis leads to interesting conclusions and emphasizes
the need to account for multiple sources of codon bias in evolution. The
similarity of selection and dissimilarity of mutation bias parameters between
the two subsets of genes is intriguing: it could be explained either by similar
selection patterns between donor and host species, or because it takes a shorter
time for the selection-driven pattern of codon bias to equilibrate in the
genome. It would be nice if the authors could discuss and distinguish between
these possibilities.

Specific comments:

If I understand it correctly, ROC SEMPPR is a statistical model that attempts to
reproduce the observed patterns of codon usage in a genome by fitting parameters
related to selection and mutation pressures for each type of codon, and to the
expression level for each gene. If this is correct, it should be explained
better. As it stands, I had no idea how the model works before reading the 2015
Gilchrist et al paper.

The original formulation of ROC SEMPPR assumes that the observed codon usage is
at equilibrium, but this assumption is not valid for introgressed genes, the
codon usage of which represents a combination of selection and mutation
signatures of the donor and host species. Because codon usage is not at
equilibrium, it is possible that some of the introgressed genes are closer to
equilibrium than others. For example, highly expressed genes could be closer to
equilibrium because they are under stronger selection. How would that affect the
estimated parameters of the model?

The codon usage vs expression plots shown in Fig S7 are interesting; they should
be included in the main text and they deserve further discussion. It appears
that some amino acids have opposite codon preferences among endogenous and
exogenous genes, for example, Asparagine codon AAC is preferred among highly
expressed endogenous genes, but depleted among highly expressed exogenous genes.
Does this pattern represent codon preference in the donor species, or could
there be another explanation?

Please proofread spelling and grammar throughout the manuscript. Eg, in the
abstract: "pheonmena" -> phenomenon; "we to identify" -> we identify.

How were the genes assigned to endogenous and exogenous sets?




Referee: 2

Comments to the Author
Landerer et al. investigate codon usage in the genome of the yeast Lachancea
kluyveri. This genome has been of interest for several years because of the
unusual properties of a region called “C-left”. C-left is the left portion of
chromosome C, accounting for approximately 1 Mbp (400 genes) of the 12 Mbp L.
kluyveri genome. C-left was first described by Payen et al (2009, cited) and has
subsequently been analyzed in detail by the laboratories of G. Fischer and J.
Schacherer. Its G+C content is much higher than in the rest of the genome (53%
vs 40%), it lacks transposable elements (Payen et al. 2009, cited), it does not
recombine in laboratory crosses (Brion et al. 2017, PMID 28763437, not cited),
it appears to be an introgression from another species (Payen et al. 2009;
Friedrich et al 2015, cited), and it is only present in Lachancea kluyveri, not
other Lachancea species (Vakirlis et al. 2016, PMID 27247244, not cited). C-left
is therefore a very interesting piece of DNA.
In the current manuscript, Landerer et al. have used the software ROC SEMPRR,
which they developed in several previous publications, to investigate the
differences in codon usage between C-left (the ‘exogenous’ genes) and the rest
of the L. kluyveri genome (‘endogenous’ genes). They claim that ROC SEMPRR can
disentangle the effects of mutation and natural selection on codon usage bias,
and that doing this enables them to estimate the age and the source of the
introgression.

Payen et al (2009) included quite a detailed analysis and discussion of codon
usage in C-left vs the rest of the genome, and I am not convinced that Landerer
et al.’s manuscript contributes much additional knowledge to the story.

Major comments:
The evidence that “E. gossypii is the most likely source of the introgressed
genes” is tenuous, not based on any phylogenetic analysis. In fact, the
manuscript essentially ignores phylogeny, even though Payen et al. (2009)
carried out a thorough phylogenetic analysis of genes in C-left and showed that
they appear to have been introgressed from another (unknown) Lachancea species,
and not from E. gossypii as proposed here. Vakirlis et al (2016) reiterated this
conclusion. But Landerer et al do not discuss this discrepancy. Landerer’s
evidence for E. gossypii as the source is based on the scatterplot in Fig 3, but
this plot seems to place closely related species far apart (E. cymbalariae is
evidently not close to E. gossypii in this plot; similarly, C. albicans is
evidently not close to C. dubliniensis). If the donor of the DNA was closely
related to E. gossypii, then it must also have been closely related to E.
cymbalariae but Fig 3 does not recover this. The plot seems to separate species
based mostly on G+C content, and E. gossypii is almost the highest-GC species in
the dataset (Table S3).  The phylogenetic relationship among the 38 yeast
species considered in Fig 3 is known robustly (Shen et al, PMIDs 27672114,
30415838) but is almost not mentioned in the manuscript’s discussion of possible
sources of the introgressed DNA.
Because I have little confidence that the authors correctly identified the
source of the introgressed DNA, I also have little confidence in their estimates
of the time elapsed since introgression.

Minor comments:
In several places, the text talks about “improved ability to predict present day
protein synthesis rates” (Lines 20, 75, 187 in the authors’ numbering). There is
no validation of these predictions using actual protein synthesis data; in
Figure 1, the predicted rate of protein synthesis (phi) is compared to the
observed level of gene transcription (microarray data, presumably in one growth
condition). On line 87, the authors fudge the issue by using “gene expression”
to mean both mRNA level and protein abundance. The better fit in the “separated
genome” plot in Fig 1 is suggestive of, but not proof of, an improved ability to
predict the proteome.
The discussion about optimal codons (P6) makes no consideration of the tRNA gene
set of the genome.
Figures S3 and S4 are weird. In S3, do the Roman numerals indicate E. gossypii
chromosomes? In general, there is a 1:1 collinear synteny relationship between
Lachancea and Eremothecium so it is surprising to see an apparently triplicated
region in this diagram, but impossible to investigate. What is the X-axis scale
(is this C-left or the whole chromosome C?), and G+C content is plotted in which
species – it does not look like Payen’s plot. In S4, the species abbreviations
use some obsolete names and no details about the method used is provided.

L248: Meiotic recombination in L. kluyveri was directly investigated by Brion et
al, who found that C-left undergoes absolutely no recombination and no Spo11
breaks, even though its pattern of linkage disequilibrium among L. kluyveri
isolates is suggestive of a high historical recombination rate.
I get the impression that the work in this manuscript was carried out a
considerable time ago. No references more recent than 2015 are cited, except
ones from the authors’ own group. The analysis used microarray data from 2010
rather than the RNAseq data of Brion et al (2015, PMID 25897111). It does not
cite the Brion 2015, 2017 or Vakirlis 2016 papers about this genome. The list of
genomes in Table S3 is, I think, all pre-2015 (there are now hundreds of genomes
that could be included; Shen et al 2018).

Other comments
L94, what does concordance percentage mean?
Tables S1 and S2 should be merged, and the “L. kluyveri” columns explained.
Figure S1 seems to be identical to Figure 3. The legend is correct, but the S1
plot should be of exogenous genes, not endogenous.
Figure S2 is not cited until after S3 and S4. The text cites a Figure S4b which
does not exist.
L241: “one round of meiosis per 1000 mitoses” ignores the further factor that
only one meiosis in 100 involves outcrossing (S. paradoxus data, Tsai et al
2008).
Table S3 includes 3 species that are not budding yeasts (Saccharomycotina):
Trichophyton, Sphaerulina, and Cladophialophora.

